Welcome to Cinema Summary ladies and gentlemen.
Now, what would you do if you could wish for anything
your heart desired and it would be brought
to you?
We’ll be exploring what can happen in such
a situation and the consequences that can
apply.
This is The Room (2019).
So the movie starts off with Kate and her
husband, Matt, moving in to their new home
in Springwell, Upstate New York: its a real fixer
upper that has a mysterious wall blocked off.
While cleaning up the kitchen, Kate finds
a colorful if dead bird, which is just one
of many weird items that are in the house
like this key that Matt finds.
After Matt finishes removing the barricade,
he notices something weird with the wall and
after scratching off wallpaper he finds a secret
door with a weird lock.
and after putting together a key, Matt unlocks
the door and together with Kate, go inside.
Though after walking in, the lights start
flickering which gets Matt to call the power
company.
and the next day, the power guy comes and is shown
a mysterious machine beneath the house
weird cables and wires seem to emerge from it.
It's a weird thing that as the power guy puts it is
“Older than his grandma” that he has never
seen before in his life
After looking it over and just before leaving, the power
guy reveals to Matt that the previous owners got killed
in the house.
Something neither Kate nor Matt knew and so he
does some research on the Springwell House
Murders and finds that 2 tenants: a married
couple were found murdered and the murderer
was caught but his identity was unknown.
That night, Matt makes a sketch of the killer’s
portrait and is drawn to the room once more.
As he finishes his bottle of spirits, he glumly
wishes for another one.
Then there’s a hum, a power outage, and
when the power comes on, like magic,
a bottle of the same spirits he was drinking
appears: full, and unopened.
So the next day is a day of debauchery for
the two of them as Matt demonstrates the wish
fulfilling properties of the Room to Kate
and the two of them go predictably hog wild
with wishes.
and the morning after, Kate does some
thinking outside, and as she's out there
Matt notices that a necklace that was
wished for is missing from her neck.
It’s then that Matt decides to surprise
her with a room: a baby’s room and asks
for one more try and Kate
isn’t too sure about this.
Since they had some difficulty in the past,
having tried twice to no success with both
times ending in losing the baby.
It was a traumatic experience and Kate
is not willing to try again.
Matt goes off for a drive and when he gets
back he finds Kate with a baby.
and they get into a spat: Matt is upset
with Kate since sure he wanted a kid
but not through the power of a wish
they could’ve done this the ‘right’ way
and now that she’s done this
they need to make this right and get rid of it.
So, the duo go back to the wishing room as
the baby cries and whines for mama and the
rooms lights flicker erratically.
Matt demands she wishes for the baby’s to
disappear before trying to make the wish himself
but he can’t do it either.
So, they’re stuck with this baby.
Later, as he sits in his studio, Matt’s
eyes are drawn to the portrait he sketched
of the Springwell House killer.
He does some more research and looking at
a newspaper clipping of the suspect
he reads a quote that say
“The Room made me do it”.
Finding out that the killer was also institutionalized
for the rest of his life at a mental hospital.
Under the name John Doe
After grabbing some money, Matt heads to the
hospital of the killer and asks to visit the man
Face-to-face, Matt meets John who knows that
Matt’s been living in The House and knows its
wish granting properties before warning Matt
to get out NOW or else bad things might happen.
After leaving the hospital, Matt goes to get
his car refueled and finds out that the money
from the house turned to dust.
He then has a horrible realization and rushes
home to test his hypothesis and the results
are in: painting, money, or what have you:
whatever part leaves the threshold of the
house will age at an accelerated rate, turning
into dust.
It’s much later that Matt goes around The
Room, beating it with a hammer and finds wires
hidden in the walls leading from the machine
downstairs.
Further investigation leads to him finding
similar lengths of wires and cables as well
as a strange diagram that bears some resemblance
to a circuit board or maybe a magic sigil.
That’s when Kate decides to take the baby
out for some fresh air, and Matt tries to tell
her it’s a bad idea without explaining why
and she predictably takes the baby out leading
to it aging.
It almost dies but Matt decides to help save
the child which has now become a young boy.
Kate confronts Matt about his knowledge of
the house and explains as well as he can that
the house is like a giant 3D printer that
makes things can only survive within the limits
of the house or else it ages to dust.
Even a child will age because even "it" is a thing.
Some time goes by and Shane, the house made child
is older now and is eager to leave the house
much to his mother’s consternation.
Kate and Matt having restricted him to the
house due to his ‘sickness’ kind of like
that other movie, Eli.
Of course this restriction makes him bitter
especially towards his mother who has taken
a much larger role in his life as opposed
to Matt: whose become a shut-in, studying
the house, trying to figure it out and having
ordered a pistol for reasons we don’t know.
It’s after Shane attempts to leave the house
that Kate takes drastic measures in restraining
her son: boarding up windows from the outside.
Shane gets curious about himself after hearing
his mom and dad talking about him and how
he is a figment.
It’s the mystery of himself and the house
that drives him to investigate The Room.
The next day, the parents realize someone’s
been making wishes and when they enter the
room they find that it’s changed into a
forest where Shane has been making a snowman
and the parents are of two minds: one positive
and the other negative.
Leading to Matt locking the room, taking apart the key
and leaving it in his desk with his gun.
This gets him in an argument with Kate about
the dangers of Shane’s wishes and his existence.
and that’s when John Doe calls the house, somehow,
and John gets to chatting with Matt about his
connection with the house as Kate listens in
And something John talks about is that there
is a way for creations of the house to survive
outside: the creator must be destroyed by
the creation.
As for how he knows this: John Doe is a figment
too, a house created lifeform whose parents
sacrificed themselves for John’s existence.
Thus, Matt has 2 choices: kill Kate and save
Shane, or kill Shane to save Kate.
Kate drives off leaving Matt and Shane alone
as she goes off to sacrifice herself only
to stop at the last moment while Matt and
Shane talk about Shane’s status as a figment.
and it’s here that Matt reveals that
Shane is a fake person.
when Kate returns and things get heated between
her and Matt as Shane spies on them.
The next morning, he steals some keys and
runs off.
When Matt and Kate wake up the doors open
and Shane is "found": older, taller, and
yet still very much a child who has his dad’s gun.
Things happen as Kate is knocked to the ground
while Matt and Shane fight and when she wakes
up, Matt’s there and tells her that Shane’s
dead and buried outside.
But then we see Matt on the
floor desperately trying to find Kate.
After he realizes that the lights are flickering
and the Room is locked he makes himself an
entrance to find her.
As for Kate, she just can’t stay here anymore and wants
out of the house but Matt is pretty okay with
just staying here and that’s when he does
a few things that the REAL Matt wouldn’t
do. Something that Kate notices
As for the real Matt , he crawls through the
wires of the house before he breaks on through
to the other side.
Back with Kate, she knocks Shane-pretending-to-be-Matt
away after he makes a move on her and runs
around the home away from Shane who knocks
her down and does "something" to her.
Only for Shane to leave her as Matt breaks
into the fake house and comes in to rescue
her, but as they try to leave the House Inside
The Room, things become Escherian as Shane
exerts control over the fake house.
But the parents manage to trick Shane and
make it back to the real house and trap Shane
outside leading to his end.
One month later: at a motel, Kate is in shock
as she realizes she’s pregnant and there’s this
long shot that lingers on her shocked reaction
when all of a sudden the lamp in the room flickers.
So that just happened but
what does it mean?
Nothing good, I assure you and to hammer in
how bad this could be, let’s walk in another
person’s shoes for a minute.
Let’s say you are a mother and you have
had difficulties giving birth: having had a traumatic
experience that has made you afraid of trying.
Then a solution comes along that bypasses
any trauma for the sake of an instantaneously
granted wish: a child borne from no mother
or father except for that of a magic house.
You raise it, and then the child is magically aged up
and takes the form of your husband,
and impregnates you 1 month ago
A month passes, your cycle is funny, you
pee on a stick and it’s positive.
I’m going to give you a few more seconds to digest
what I’ve just said, you done?
Okay.
So what I think happened was that Kate realizes
that she is pregnant and that she is carrying
her son’s child.
How exactly this would work since anything
created by the house cannot exist outside
without aging to dust?
Well, remember how John Doe mentions that
you the creator must be sacrificed in order
for the Creation to live outside the house?
Well, Shane passes on at the very end of the
movie but not before the fertilization process
finishes up inside of Kate as we saw Kate
stay inside the house to keep Shane out.
In order to, y'know, "terminate" him
So yeah, that’s a rather icky thing to think about.
Let's move on
Then there’s the lamp flickering in the
motel room.
This I believe is not the movie saying
“The Wish Granting Properties
of the Room have moved"
instead it’s acting as a reminder for Kate
Reminding her that she has not truly escaped
the consequences of her wishes.
Now let’s briefly talk about the Wishing
Room for a minute: it’s a very enigmatic
plot device of the film, that has little
to no explanation for who made it, when it
was made, or even why it was created although
I think it can be easily reasoned out as to
the why, y'know, to grant wishes
But something to note is that it’s ancient,
probably as old as the house and probably
created by the person who built
the house in the first place
considering how integrated the machine
is within the walls of the house
Now with that said, what was never elaborated on
are the limitations of the wishing room: Kate
and Matt wish for smallish things so to speak
although we see that given a wish and the
desire of something, you can literally transform
the interior of the Wishing Room as we see
in the case of Shane.
now I am assuming that age and mindset affects
the scale of a wish as we only see Shane doing
things like making an entire forest inside
of the room or transforming the interior of
the fake house into an MC Escher painting.
Though this is merely speculation on my part
though it should be a factor that is considered
but what do you guys think?
Do you agree with what I’ve said about the
meaning of the ending?
My thoughts on the Wishing Room?
And if you’ve seen it, what do you think
of the movie?
Let me know with a comment down below and
with that said.
Thank you so much for watching ladies and
gentlemen, if you enjoyed the video leave
a like down below and subscribe to get updated
on my latest uploads.
Have a good December, Merry Christmas to all,
and I wish that Santa brings you all something
good this month